# User Self-Registration

If your organization would like to allow users to create their own accounts and access some content without a manual approval step, we can configure your account to do so. The user journey would be as follows:

1. The User creates their own account using the New Users tab of the login screen, adding their own email, first name, last name and password. The User is immediately granted access to your portal and any content (tiles) that have no privacy settings. The User also receives an automated system **alert**, indicating their account has been registered and approved.

2. If your organization is configured with a choice of groups a user can join (subscribe to), and the user toggles one of those groups when creating their account, they also immediately become members of that group, and can see whatever portal tiles that group has access to. The group can be configured to send **notifications** to the user (welcoming them to your account, explaining what they can access and possible next steps) and/or to your administrators (notifying them of the new user). These optional **notification** emails are hooked up in the **group** itself.
(**Note:** you can provide a link to register for a specific group or program by using a link that includes the group name: [your orginization].insite.com/ui/lobby/register?group=[group name])

3. If the group the user joins is configured with a mandatory **survey** (application form), they will be prompted to complete and submit a response upon creating their account. The survey can also be configured to send a **notification** to the user when they have submitted a response (thank you for applying, your response will be reviewed, etc.) and/or to your administrators (notifying them they have an application to review). These optional **notification** emails are hooked up in the **survey** itself. 

4. Once the **survey response** (application) has been reviewed by an admin; the admin can remove the user from the “applicant” group and add them to another group that has access to additional or different portal tiles. Once again, the groups can be configured to send **notifications** to the user (you have been approved for x group, log in now to see additional content) and/or to other internal staff (a new learner has joined x group). These optional **notification** emails are hooked up to each group a user might be placed in. 

All notifications must be created and configured in the **Messages** Toolkit, prior to being hooked up where needed. **Do not** add any subscribers to any notifications going to users. **Do** add subscribers to any notifications going to admins, as desired for each one. We suggest you use the internal name of the message to distinguish between them: Notification to User on completion of application, Notification to User welcoming them to x group, Notification to admin that an application has been completed, etc.
