# Survey Outline

<i class="fas fa-file"></i>   **New**
Create a New Survey
 <i class="fal fa-copy"></i>  **Duplicate**
Create a copy of the existing survey, which you can reuse, and edit to create similar surveys, or create multiple surveys using the existing scheme of survey.
<i class="fas fa-globe"></i>  **Translate**
Using this button will translate the entire Survey, depending on the language configuration of your Organization in Shift iQ. Please contact the Shift iQ support team to configure language settings for your Organization.
<i class="fas fa-history"></i>  **History**
History shows a detailed log of who has made changes to the survey.
<i class="fas fa-download"></i>  **Download**
Download .JSON file of Survey 
 <i class="far fa-chart-bar"></i>  **Reports** 
Survey Report give statistics for each question in the survey.
<i class="fas fa-search"></i>   **Responses**
Shortcut all started and completed responses for this survey.
<i class="fas fa-power-off"></i>   **Reset (Delete all survey responses)**
This is often used after testing when you are preparing to launch your survey live.

### Translations

The **Translations** tab enables you to set the language and translation features of the survey (if necessary). Surveys must be authored in English.  Once the English version is complete, you can translate it into another language.  

Select **Translate** in the **Survey** Panel and then select the language you would like to translate your survey into.

The translations are generated by Google Translate and automatically populated into the fields.  Edit and replace as necessary.

Please contact [support@shiftiq.com](mailto:support@shiftiq.com) if you are unsure whether your account has been set up for multi-language surveys.

### Conditions

Add conditional logic to your survey.  This function hides a question on a subsequent page based on the answers of an earlier page (in case the condition is met or not met). 

If Conditions have been enabled, you will see this icon <i class="far fa-code-branch"></i> beside the survey questions. 

### Branches

The Branches tab shows a summary of the skip patterns contained in the survey.  

Set up skip patterns by editing the answer options for the question you want to branch off.  Skip patterns will be displayed on the Branches tab but cannot be edited on the Branches tab.

When actively editing a survey, you should check here periodically for errors or warnings.

**Warning:** Be aware when editing skip patterns, conditions, or branches, that if there is a user currently in the process of responding to the survey, they may get stuck. You will likely need to delete their response and have them start again.
